Let's take a moment to define just what customer
expectations are in this section.
Now defining and capturing customer expectations can be fuzzy or hard to get,
extract or even interpret from your customer.
Customer expectations are very unique and different for
each and every person and customer.
Some can be very fuzzy like, I expect you to do good work.
Okay not too clear.
Or they can be very, very specific like,
I want x, y, and z done this Friday 4:00 PM or else.
Well I know exactly what they expect,
and that's when it's fully articulated and maybe even fully documented.
Okay, let's explore further.
So what is an expectation?
It's a belief that someone will or should achieve something.
So in the case of this module, the someone is, of course, you and your team.
So what is a customer expectation?
To continue this further,
customer expectations is a belief by your customer that you will or should
achieve something and that something is in fact the expectation.
And your customers will have many expectations and each
customer will have different ones.
Man, that is a lot on your shoulders to figure out actually.
Remember you are providing a service which is providing business
value and just so happens to include software,
not the other way around.
Also think of potential expectations from the customer's point of view,
not yours.
Now let's see some examples of customer expectations.
Here are some examples of some customer expectations.
You will deliver a build every 2 weeks, they may expect a build every 2 weeks,
can you deliver that?
How would you deliver that?
You will hold a weekly status meeting.
Man, I have a ton of meetings and here's another one?
What will we talk about?
You will on call for ecommerce support.
This must be important.
Is the Ecom tied to my projects aligned to the business?
How do I handle that?
You will understand my business.
Wait a minute,
I thought I was a software engineer turned manager for software engineers,
you mean I need to know their business too?
You will always deliver on time.
Sure I get that, but always?
How do I handle that if I don't?
You will never have a bug.
Hey that's an easy one, uh, right.
They'll always be some bugs of some form, how do I manage that expectation?
So keep these in mind for now.
We will progress in this module to learn the basic techniques of
managing customer expectations then we'll circle around to each one
of these and I'll give you ideas and examples on how you might
better manage each expectation.
You will likely be getting your assignments,
direction, requirements,
and priorities from a variety of sources in your company.
And for each of these sources of customer,
their expectations will vary in nature.
Managing expectations, therefore, may need different approaches by customer type.
So let's look at a few.
Business leaders, such as CEOs, CFOs,
CIOs nor the VP of manufacturing or the VP of engineering,
for example, may have the highest expectations,
such as I want that done now, any questions?
The next will be steering group.
This may be a collection of two or more of the above even of
other representatives that get together,
maybe monthly or quarterly, to set priorities and/or drive requirements.
This group will also have very high expectations.
Another group may be what I call business focal points,
maybe the manager of customer service has provided you a requirement,
a business focal point, maybe more approachable,
and you may be able to spend more time with this person to build
trust and understanding when you need it the most.
Next, your manager may have a totally different set of expectations,
like coaching and mentoring coworkers,
improving your software development processes,
for example,
more of how you write your software more than what
you do for your customers possibly.
End users,
you may get calls and comments from end users or reps of
end users about things they expect,
such as when the sale systems may be available,
can I call someone on the weekend and things like that.
Okay, so in this list of customers from business leader down to end users,
from the top you have people with higher expectations and the people lower down
the list are what I call more reality based expectations.
They may live more in what I might call the real world,
the nuts and bolts of what we're trying to do.
They may be more forgiving and they may be able to
give you more succinct expectations.
The higher you go up, especially up in the business leaders,
CEOs and CFOs, et cetera, they have very,
very high expectations and don't really care about the
nuts and bolts and just want things done.
So this is just a heads up in terms of how you connect to your customer base
and what you can expect yourself of their expectations.
Expectations come in all shapes and sizes, as we know.
Now let's circle back to your job of aligning IT to the business.
If you are successful in doing that well,
you will find that you will have a better chance of managing expectations,
especially for the business leaders and steering group staff by senior people,
you know, the people with the highest expectations.
Okay, so from a high level perspective,
if you have aligned your work with the business,
you have already come a very long way with setting
expectations for those senior folks.
Everybody knows what you and your team are working on,
they can see your priority 1 and priority 2 projects and activities,
and they can see that you have a backlog as well.
In order to adequately manage customer expectations,
it is important to prioritize the needs of the client or clients.
Everyone should be on the same page with regards to what the client expects of
the business and what the business can promise to deliver.
Always be talking to the customer.
Every client will be different,
asking lots of questions is a great way to find out what the client is
prioritizing as the most important required service or product.
It is also good for you to ask the customer what he or she expects from the
business relationship and the services that you provide.
You can see on this slide how the emphasis on a clear
approach to prioritizing your work is essential.
Now in the next section, let's turn to discussing strategies for managing customer expectations.